README.md, before:

# Heat Ledger Client Framework
In this `README` you will find step by step instructions to get up and running developing **heat-ui** applications.
Heat-ui framework is a complete end to end development setup.

In heat-ui you find:

- **Visual Studio Code** configuration and setup
- **TypeScript** configuration for Visual Studio Code
- Full **code completion** for all Angular, Angular Material and all our own code
- **Gulp development and build** setup
- **Gulp TypeScript** configurations
- Local **development server** TypeScript bindings
- TypeScript client side services
  1. **cryptography**
  2. networking, **real-time push pull and pubsub**
  3. byte/binary support (**object mappers**)
  4. **user/key** management
  5. **settings** framework (with ui bindings)
  6. create, inspect or verify **HEAT Ledger transactions**
- UI components
  1. **real-time update** on web socket events
  2. **advanced dialog support** (standard, input, multi page wizard)
  3. **auto complete** support (see server results as you type)
- Angular Material and the **Google Material Design** rules
- Coded in **Angular 2 style** :sunglasses:
- **Bootstrapper** that injects Angular 2 compatible `Component`, `Service`, `Inject` (and others) TypeScript decorators.
- High **compatibility with Angular 2** through our very own **Angular 1 to Angular 2 bridge**

## Note

At Heat Ledger Ltd we currently do our client and server development on Debian/Ubuntu desktops, we find it to be an excellent open source free! and secure platform. While we try and help new developers coming to heat-ui as best as possible, it is unfortunately not possible to include detailed step by step instructions for platforms that are not Debian based. Looking at you here Windows and Mac.

In time it is our goal to include detailed step by step instructions for all platforms. So if you are using heat-ui and you are on Windows or Mac? Please be so kind to record the steps that it involved and provide those to us so we can share them with any other new user/developer that comes after you.

That said, we will be including links to documents describing the various steps for all supported platforms.

## Installation

To get started developing heat-ui applications you really need your own copy of heat-ui. Easiest is to simply git clone the repo. This way you have everything in place to share back changes you made to heat-ui and to easily download upstream changes to heat-ui to your local development copy.

To clone heat-ui to your own machine open a terminal and `cd` to where you want your heat-ui folder to appear. Now type the following to clone heat-ui.

`git clone https://github.com/Heat-Ledger-Ltd/heat-ui.git`

### Visual Studio Code

Visual Studio Code is a Microsoft Open Source project that provides you with a cross platform (Windows, Linux, Mac) free advanced development suite. It offers a file explorer, debugging support, git integration and excellent support for the Open Source Microsoft TypeScript language.

![VS Code screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/43Yp5zV.png "VS Code screenshot")

One of the main reasons why creating applications with heat-ui goes so fast is because of the powerfull tooling provided by Visual Studio Code and it's of TypeScript. Unlike any other Javascript application you've made before, through VS Code we get the same productivity boost one finds when using an IDE for Java, C++, C# or any other strongly typed language.

Please go ahead to https://code.visualstudio.com and install the latest version for your platform.

### Node-JS

Heat-ui makes extensive use of nodejs. We use if for dependency managemnt, to power our builds and to assist in development through auto-recompiling and to power up your local development server.

Complete installation instructions for nodejs are out of the scope of this document since those instructions depend largely on the platform you are on.

Windows and Mac users please look at anyone of these links:

- https://www.google.com/search?q=how+to+install+nodejs (GIYF)
- https://howtonode.org/how-to-install-nodejs

Debian/Ubuntu users please follow these steps

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nodejs
sudo apt-get install npm
```

### Gulp

Heat-ui uses http://gulpjs.com/ as its main build tool, we prefer gulp over its rivals because of the speed it offers. The streaming and paralel architecture of gulp allows us to perform builds almost instantly, together with the strong error checking in Visual Studio Code and the instant feedback development goes a lot faster than standard JavaScript apps.

Follow these steps to install gulp requirements.

```
npm install --global gulp-cli
```

### Auto install dependencies

Now that you have nodejs, npm and gulp installed we can initialize all heat-ui development tools and dependent libraries by running the provided `package.json` with npm.

Installing the dependencies

```
cd /my/path/to/heat-ui
npm init
```

The initial installation of all dependencies could take a while, several minutes.

### Install Type Definitions

The nice thing with TypeScript is of course its strong typing, which gets even better when we can include type definitions for non-TypeScript libraries.
Through type definitions you get full code completion and inspection for all external libraries we use (Angular, Angular Material, etc..)

To install the required type definitions

```
tsd install
```

### Start the development server

Heat-ui comes with a fully configured development server, the server auto compiles from TypeScript to Javascript whenever you change a file. The development server allows you to access your compiled app at a localhost address, straight from your browser. Hit refresh to load your latest changes.

To start the development server

```
cd /my/path/to/heat-ui
gulp play
```

Now to access your app go to

http://localhost:9001/dist

We recommend using Goolgle Chrome Debugger which comes with Chrome to inspect any running code. Since browsers don't understand TypeScript it had to be compiled to JavaScript. To still be able to find the TypeScript line on which a JavaScript error occured, the console uses source maps that map the TypeScript to the JavaScript.

### Build desktop versions

Heat-ui uses Electron from Github to provide users with an installable desktop application. Electron and therefor heat-ui works on all modern operating systems. (Fun fact, Visual Studio Code is also built on Electron).

To build the actual desktop releases we use https://github.com/electron-userland/electron-packager.

Commit message:

Add note about node version for electron-packager

README.md, after:

# Heat Ledger Client Framework
In this `README` you will find step by step instructions to get up and running developing **heat-ui** applications.
Heat-ui framework is a complete end to end development setup.

In heat-ui you find:

- **Visual Studio Code** configuration and setup
- **TypeScript** configuration for Visual Studio Code
- Full **code completion** for all Angular, Angular Material and all our own code
- **Gulp development and build** setup
- **Gulp TypeScript** configurations
- Local **development server** TypeScript bindings
- TypeScript client side services
  1. **cryptography**
  2. networking, **real-time push pull and pubsub**
  3. byte/binary support (**object mappers**)
  4. **user/key** management
  5. **settings** framework (with ui bindings)
  6. create, inspect or verify **HEAT Ledger transactions**
- UI components
  1. **real-time update** on web socket events
  2. **advanced dialog support** (standard, input, multi page wizard)
  3. **auto complete** support (see server results as you type)
- Angular Material and the **Google Material Design** rules
- Coded in **Angular 2 style** :sunglasses:
- **Bootstrapper** that injects Angular 2 compatible `Component`, `Service`, `Inject` (and others) TypeScript decorators.
- High **compatibility with Angular 2** through our very own **Angular 1 to Angular 2 bridge**

## Note

At Heat Ledger Ltd we currently do our client and server development on Debian/Ubuntu desktops, we find it to be an excellent open source free! and secure platform. While we try and help new developers coming to heat-ui as best as possible, it is unfortunately not possible to include detailed step by step instructions for platforms that are not Debian based. Looking at you here Windows and Mac.

In time it is our goal to include detailed step by step instructions for all platforms. So if you are using heat-ui and you are on Windows or Mac? Please be so kind to record the steps that it involved and provide those to us so we can share them with any other new user/developer that comes after you.

That said, we will be including links to documents describing the various steps for all supported platforms.

## Installation

To get started developing heat-ui applications you really need your own copy of heat-ui. Easiest is to simply git clone the repo. This way you have everything in place to share back changes you made to heat-ui and to easily download upstream changes to heat-ui to your local development copy.

To clone heat-ui to your own machine open a terminal and `cd` to where you want your heat-ui folder to appear. Now type the following to clone heat-ui.

`git clone https://github.com/Heat-Ledger-Ltd/heat-ui.git`

### Visual Studio Code

Visual Studio Code is a Microsoft Open Source project that provides you with a cross platform (Windows, Linux, Mac) free advanced development suite. It offers a file explorer, debugging support, git integration and excellent support for the Open Source Microsoft TypeScript language.

![VS Code screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/43Yp5zV.png "VS Code screenshot")

One of the main reasons why creating applications with heat-ui goes so fast is because of the powerfull tooling provided by Visual Studio Code and it's of TypeScript. Unlike any other Javascript application you've made before, through VS Code we get the same productivity boost one finds when using an IDE for Java, C++, C# or any other strongly typed language.

Please go ahead to https://code.visualstudio.com and install the latest version for your platform.

### Node-JS

Heat-ui makes extensive use of nodejs. We use if for dependency managemnt, to power our builds and to assist in development through auto-recompiling and to power up your local development server.

Complete installation instructions for nodejs are out of the scope of this document since those instructions depend largely on the platform you are on.

Windows and Mac users please look at anyone of these links:

- https://www.google.com/search?q=how+to+install+nodejs (GIYF)
- https://howtonode.org/how-to-install-nodejs

Debian/Ubuntu users please follow these steps

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nodejs
sudo apt-get install npm
```

### Gulp

Heat-ui uses http://gulpjs.com/ as its main build tool, we prefer gulp over its rivals because of the speed it offers. The streaming and paralel architecture of gulp allows us to perform builds almost instantly, together with the strong error checking in Visual Studio Code and the instant feedback development goes a lot faster than standard JavaScript apps.

Follow these steps to install gulp requirements.

```
npm install --global gulp-cli
```

### Auto install dependencies

Now that you have nodejs, npm and gulp installed we can initialize all heat-ui development tools and dependent libraries by running the provided `package.json` with npm.

Installing the dependencies

```
cd /my/path/to/heat-ui
npm init
```

The initial installation of all dependencies could take a while, several minutes.

### Install Type Definitions

The nice thing with TypeScript is of course its strong typing, which gets even better when we can include type definitions for non-TypeScript libraries.
Through type definitions you get full code completion and inspection for all external libraries we use (Angular, Angular Material, etc..)

To install the required type definitions

```
tsd install
```

### Start the development server

Heat-ui comes with a fully configured development server, the server auto compiles from TypeScript to Javascript whenever you change a file. The development server allows you to access your compiled app at a localhost address, straight from your browser. Hit refresh to load your latest changes.

To start the development server

```
cd /my/path/to/heat-ui
gulp play
```

Now to access your app go to

http://localhost:9001/dist

We recommend using Goolgle Chrome Debugger which comes with Chrome to inspect any running code. Since browsers don't understand TypeScript it had to be compiled to JavaScript. To still be able to find the TypeScript line on which a JavaScript error occured, the console uses source maps that map the TypeScript to the JavaScript.

### Build desktop versions

Heat-ui uses Electron from Github to provide users with an installable desktop application. Electron and therefor heat-ui works on all modern operating systems. (Fun fact, Visual Studio Code is also built on Electron).

To build the actual desktop releases we use https://github.com/electron-userland/electron-packager. Note that you need Node.js > 4.0 to use electron-packager.
